Being a ‘RISE’ finalist, I had the opportunity to take RISE benefit courses, one of which was the UChicago Leadership bootcamp which consisted of a session completely dedicated to learn negotiations and to maximize mutual benefit. Developing the notion of reciprocity was the main motif of this session which was aimed to be achieved through a hands-on-session disguised as a group activity. Each finalist was allotted a role either ‘Taylor’ or ‘Hunter’ and assigned a point schedule for a management retreat activity with the aim to maximize one’s profit either through deceptive benefit or unanimous agreement on trade. The document used for this management retreat exercise differed for Hunters and Taylors with each entity differing in weighted distribution of points between Hunters and Taylors. https://github.com/dhruvsheth-ai/misc-open/blob/main/Hunter.pdf. The document (designed for Hunters) clearly illustrates how the mean value for the weighted distribution of each entity lies at the median. Example: For the ‘destination’ entity, the mean value lies at the median, ‘Chicago, Illinois’. For the hunters, the distribution of points increases while going up and as seen, the ‘destination’ entity contains the maximum point weightage of 4000 as compared to any other entity. However, for Taylors, the document was somewhat opposite. The point distribution was exactly opposite as seen in entity ‘destination’, the points for the destination increased from California to Florida. Additionally, the weightage of points had also changed. For Hunters, the entity, ‘destination’ was given the most amount of points as 4000, but for Taylors, it was given the least- at 200 and vice-versa.
i) For the untrained eye, the only way to maximize the profit seemed to be to play deceptive and maximize one’s own profit but decrease the other one’s. (None of us knew the other's document before the game). However, this method wasn’t able to maximize the profit for each. 
 
ii) The other method was to simply trade for the median price for each entity and while it commenced an equitable trade, the profits were nowhere close to maximum and had profits even less than using deceptive means.
 
If this trade process is conducted several times, the one making less profit than the other would eventually try to use deceptive means too, which would lead them to use the 2nd method that decreases profits lower than the 1st method. Negotiation skills are commensurate with trading skills, in effect it’s a ‘give and get’ process which requires active discussion from both individuals towards a mutual benefit among both groups. 
 
iii) The best means is to make use of the weighted distribution of points. The entities with the highest weight distribution for the Hunter contains the lowest for the Taylor and this can only be known through active discussion. Once known, the trade can be facilitated in a manner to trade the highest value of the entity with maximum weightage, i.e in case of Hunters, trade San Francisco from ‘destination’ entity so that Hunters get $4000 and Taylors get $0, but in the next case, choose the entity which has maximum weightage for Taylors and trade such that Taylor gets $4000 and Hunters get $0. 
 
This facilitates a trade through negotiation and discussion for maximum profit in an ideal scenario but requires some math too. Since the actual world isn’t so idealized, after the session we ended up having around 70% carrying out the 2nd method of trade, 29% carrying out the 1st one, and just 1 pair carrying out the 3rd one which maximizes profit. 
